lightning-renepaystatus -- Command for quering the status of previous renepay attempts
======================================================================================

SYNOPSIS
--------

**renepaystatus** [*invstring*] 

DESCRIPTION
-----------

Command *added* in v23.08.

The **renepaystatus** RPC command queries the payment plugin **renepay** for the status of previous payment attempts.

This command always succeeds.

- **invstring** (string, optional): If specified, the command will return a list of payment attempts whose invoice matches *invstring*, otherwise all payments with be listed.

RETURN VALUE
------------

On success, an object containing **paystatus** is returned. It is an array of objects, where each object contains:

- **bolt11** (string): Invoice string BOLT11.
- **payment\_hash** (hash): The hash of the *payment\_preimage* which will prove payment.
- **created\_at** (number): The UNIX timestamp showing when this payment was initiated.
- **groupid** (u32): The id for this payment attempt.
- **amount\_msat** (msat): Amount the recipient received.
- **status** (string) (one of "complete", "pending", "failed"): Status of payment.
- **notes** (array of strings): A list of messages for debugging purposes.:
  - (string, optional): A message generated by renepay.
- **payment\_preimage** (secret, optional): The proof of payment: SHA256 of this **payment\_hash** (for completed payments only).
- **parts** (u32, optional): How many attempts this took.
- **amount\_sent\_msat** (msat, optional): Total amount we sent including fees (for completed payments only).
- **destination** (pubkey, optional): The final destination of the payment.

AUTHOR
------

Eduardo Quintana-Miranda <<eduardo.quintana@pm.me>> is mainly responsible.

SEE ALSO
--------

lightning-renepay(7), lightning-listpays(7)

RESOURCES
---------

Main web site: <https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning>
