.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-FETCHINVOICE" "7" "" "Core Lightning 0.12.1" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-fetchinvoice -- Command for fetch an invoice for an offer
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fB(WARNING: experimental-offers only)\fR
.PP
\fBfetchinvoice\fR \fIoffer\fR [\fImsatoshi\fR] [\fIquantity\fR] [\fIrecurrence_counter\fR] [\fIrecurrence_start\fR] [\fIrecurrence_label\fR] [\fItimeout\fR] [\fIpayer_note\fR]
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBfetchinvoice\fR RPC command contacts the issuer of an \fIoffer\fR to get
an actual invoice that can be paid.  It highlights any changes between the
offer and the returned invoice.
.PP
If \fBfetchinvoice-noconnect\fR is not specified in the configuation, it
will connect to the destination in the (currently common!) case where it
cannot find a route which supports \fCoption_onion_messages\fR.
.PP
The offer must not contain \fIsend_invoice\fR; see lightning-sendinvoice(7).
.PP
\fImsatoshi\fR is required if the \fIoffer\fR does not specify
an amount at all, otherwise it is not allowed.
.PP
\fIquantity\fR is is required if the \fIoffer\fR specifies
\fIquantity_min\fR or \fIquantity_max\fR, otherwise it is not allowed.
.PP
\fIrecurrence_counter\fR is required if the \fIoffer\fR
specifies \fIrecurrence\fR, otherwise it is not allowed.
\fIrecurrence_counter\fR should first be set to 0, and incremented for
each successive invoice in a given series.
.PP
\fIrecurrence_start\fR is required if the \fIoffer\fR
specifies \fIrecurrence_base\fR with \fIstart\fIany\fIperiod\fR set, otherwise it
is not allowed.  It indicates what period number to start at.
.PP
\fIrecurrence_label\fR is required if \fIrecurrence_counter\fR is set, and
otherwise is not allowed.  It must be the same as prior fetchinvoice
calls for the same recurrence, as it is used to link them together.
.PP
\fItimeout\fR is an optional timeout; if we don't get a reply before this
we fail (default, 60 seconds).
.PP
\fIpayer_note\fR is an optional payer note to include in the fetched invoice.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBinvoice\fR (string): The BOLT12 invoice we fetched
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchanges\fR (object): Summary of changes from offer:
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdescription_appended\fR (string, optional): extra characters appended to the \fIdescription\fR field.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdescription\fR (string, optional): a completely replaced \fIdescription\fR field
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBvendor_removed\fR (string, optional): The \fIvendor\fR from the offer, which is missing in the invoice
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBvendor\fR (string, optional): a completely replaced \fIvendor\fR field
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBamount_msat\fR (msat, optional): the amount, if different from the offer amount multiplied by any \fIquantity\fR (or the offer had no amount, or was not in BTC).
.RE
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBnext_period\fR (object, optional): Only for recurring invoices if the next period is under the \fIrecurrence_limit\fR:
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcounter\fR (u64): the index of the next period to fetchinvoice
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBstarttime\fR (u64): UNIX timestamp that the next period starts
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBendtime\fR (u64): UNIX timestamp that the next period ends
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpaywindow_start\fR (u64): UNIX timestamp of the earliest time that the next invoice can be fetched
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpaywindow_end\fR (u64): UNIX timestamp of the latest time that the next invoice can be fetched
.RE
.LP
The following error codes may occur:
- -1: Catchall nonspecific error.
- 1002: Offer has expired.
- 1003: Cannot find a route to the node making the offer.
- 1004: The node making the offer returned an error message.
- 1005: We timed out trying to fetch an invoice.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Rusty Russell <\fIrusty@rustcorp.com.au\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-sendinvoice(7), lightning-pay(7).
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
\" SHA256STAMP:5a07ed5e5a8e49d00fbad27a3baf9b95b7b0af7bef9edadbdbf25ceed4f89ae5
