.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-AUTOCLEANINVOICE" "7" "" "Core Lightning 0.12.1" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-autocleaninvoice -- Set up auto-delete of expired invoice
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBautocleaninvoice\fR [\fIcycle_seconds\fR] [\fIexpired_by\fR]
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBautocleaninvoice\fR RPC command sets up automatic cleaning of
expired invoices.
.PP
Autoclean will be done every \fIcycle_seconds\fR seconds. Setting
\fIcycle_seconds\fR to 0 disables autoclean. If not specified, this
defaults to 3600 (one hour).
.PP
Every autoclean cycle, expired invoices, which have already been expired
for at least \fIexpired_by\fR seconds, will be deleted. If \fIexpired_by\fR is
not specified, this defaults to 86400 (one day).
.PP
On startup of the daemon, no autoclean is set up.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBenabled\fR (boolean): whether invoice autocleaning is active
.LP
If \fBenabled\fR is \fItrue\fR:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBexpired_by\fR (u64): how long an invoice must be expired (seconds) before we delete it
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcycle_seconds\fR (u64): how long an invoice must be expired (seconds) before we delete it
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
ZmnSCPxj <\fIZmnSCPxj@protonmail.com\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-delexpiredinvoice(7), lightning-delinvoice(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
\" SHA256STAMP:f94bfb72f7a13719a1434ab2413765d284c7dd4f8e5fe06b45944ba7dfa910df
