.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-DATASTORE" "7" "" "Core Lightning 0.12.1" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-datastore -- Command for storing (plugin) data
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBdatastore\fR \fIkey\fR [\fIstring\fR] [\fIhex\fR] [\fImode\fR] [\fIgeneration\fR]
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBdatastore\fR RPC command allows plugins to store data in the
Core Lightning database, for later retrieval.
.PP
\fIkey\fR is an array of values (though a single value is treated as a
one-element array), to form a hierarchy.  Using the first element of
the key as the plugin name (e.g. \fC[ \(dqsummary\(dq ]\fR) is recommended.
A key can either have children or a value, never both: parents are
created and removed automatically.
.PP
\fImode\fR is one of \(dqmust-create\(dq (default, fails if it already exists),
\(dqmust-replace\(dq (fails if it doesn't already exist),
\(dqcreate-or-replace\(dq (never fails), \(dqmust-append\(dq (must already exist,
append this to what's already there) or \(dqcreate-or-append\(dq (append if
anything is there, otherwise create).
.PP
\fIgeneration\fR, if specified, means that the update will fail if the
previously-existing data is not exactly that generation.  This allows
for simple atomicity.  This is only legal with \fImode\fR \(dqmust-replace\(dq
or \(dqmust-append\(dq.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBkey\fR (array of strings):
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
Part of the key added to the datastore
.RE
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBgeneration\fR (u64, optional): The number of times this has been updated
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBhex\fR (hex, optional): The hex data which has been added to the datastore
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBstring\fR (string, optional): The data as a string, if it's valid utf-8
.LP
The following error codes may occur:
- 1202: The key already exists (and mode said it must not)
- 1203: The key does not exist (and mode said it must)
- 1204: The generation was wrong (and generation was specified)
- 1205: The key has children already.
- 1206: One of the parents already exists with a value.
- -32602: invalid parameters
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Rusty Russell <\fIrusty@rustcorp.com.au\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-listdatastore(7), lightning-deldatastore(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
\" SHA256STAMP:4c4ec3b9a00a2f9d32754040790a2e2b280cf4689f642c3ca95a914ad876bce1
