.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-COMMANDO" "7" "" "Core Lightning 0.12.1" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-commando -- Command to Send a Command to a Remote Peer
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBcommando\fR \fIpeer_id\fR \fImethod\fR [\fIparams\fR] [\fIrune\fR]
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBcommando\fR RPC command is a homage to bad 80s movies.  It also
sends a directly-connected \fIpeer_id\fR a custom message, containing a
request to run \fImethod\fR (with an optional dictionary of \fIparams\fR);
generally the peer will only allow you to run a command if it has
provided you with a \fIrune\fR which allows it.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, the return depends on the \fImethod\fR invoked.
.PP
On failure, one of the following error codes may be returned:
.IP "\(bu" 2
-32600: Usually means peer is not connected
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
19535: the local commando plugin discovered an error.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
19536: the remote commando plugin discovered an error.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
19537: the remote commando plugin said we weren't authorized.
.LP
It can also fail if the peer does not respond, in which case it will simply
hang awaiting a response.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Rusty Russell <\fIrusty@rustcorp.com.au\fR> wrote the original Python
commando.py plugin, the in-tree commando plugin, and this manual page.
.PP
Christian Decker came up with the name \(dqcommando\(dq, which almost
excuses his previous adoption of the name \(dqEltoo\(dq.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-commando-rune(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
\" SHA256STAMP:a2b8b47c646eb206e61c53632e412eba9dfe4c63a712f64cc8d1bde21c741c83
