.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-LISTPAYS" "7" "" "Core Lightning 0.12.1" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-listpays -- Command for querying payment status
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBlistpays\fR [\fIbolt11\fR] [\fIpayment_hash\fR] [\fIstatus\fR]
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlistpay\fR RPC command gets the status of all \fIpay\fR commands, or a
single one if either \fIbolt11\fR or \fIpayment_hash\fR was specified.
It is possible filter the payments also by \fIstatus\fR.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object containing \fBpays\fR is returned.  It is an array of objects, where each object contains:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpayment_hash\fR (hex): the hash of the \fIpayment_preimage\fR which will prove payment (always 64 characters)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBstatus\fR (string): status of the payment (one of \(dqpending\(dq, \(dqfailed\(dq, \(dqcomplete\(dq)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcreated_at\fR (u64): the UNIX timestamp showing when this payment was initiated
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdestination\fR (pubkey, optional): the final destination of the payment if known
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlabel\fR (string, optional): the label, if given to sendpay
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBbolt11\fR (string, optional): the bolt11 string (if pay supplied one)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdescription\fR (string, optional): the description matching the bolt11 description hash (if pay supplied one)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBbolt12\fR (string, optional): the bolt12 string (if supplied for pay: \fBexperimental-offers\fR only).
.LP
If \fBstatus\fR is \(dqpending\(dq or \(dqcomplete\(dq:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBamount_sent_msat\fR (msat): the amount we actually sent, including fees
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBamount_msat\fR (msat, optional): the amount the destination received, if known
.LP
If \fBstatus\fR is \(dqcomplete\(dq:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpreimage\fR (hex): proof of payment (always 64 characters)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBnumber_of_parts\fR (u64, optional): the number of parts for a successful payment (only if more than one).
.LP
If \fBstatus\fR is \(dqfailed\(dq:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBerroronion\fR (hex, optional): the error onion returned on failure, if any.
.LP
The returned array is ordered by increasing \fBcreated_at\fR fields.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Rusty Russell <\fIrusty@rustcorp.com.au\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-pay(7), lightning-paystatus(7), lightning-listsendpays(7).
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
\" SHA256STAMP:d30f88f0563eda93f6d50e4b9ba1e9029fb1b8c2e395905db875ce90de105650
