.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-WITHDRAW" "7" "" "Core Lightning 0.12.1" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-withdraw -- Command for withdrawing funds from the internal wallet
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBwithdraw\fR \fIdestination\fR \fIsatoshi\fR [\fIfeerate\fR] [\fIminconf\fR] [\fIutxos\fR]
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBwithdraw\fR RPC command sends funds from Core Lightning's internal
wallet to the address specified in \fIdestination\fR.
.PP
The address can be of any Bitcoin accepted type, including bech32.
.PP
\fIsatoshi\fR is the amount to be withdrawn from the internal wallet
(expressed, as name suggests, in satoshi). The string \fIall\fR can be used
to specify withdrawal of all available funds. Otherwise, it is in
satoshi precision; it can be a whole number, a whole number ending in
\fIsat\fR, a whole number ending in \fI000msat\fR, or a number with 1 to 8
decimal places ending in \fIbtc\fR.
.PP
\fIfeerate\fR is an optional feerate to use. It can be one of the strings
\fIurgent\fR (aim for next block), \fInormal\fR (next 4 blocks or so) or \fIslow\fR
(next 100 blocks or so) to use lightningd's internal estimates: \fInormal\fR
is the default.
.PP
Otherwise, \fIfeerate\fR is a number, with an optional suffix: \fIperkw\fR means
the number is interpreted as satoshi-per-kilosipa (weight), and \fIperkb\fR
means it is interpreted bitcoind-style as satoshi-per-kilobyte. Omitting
the suffix is equivalent to \fIperkb\fR.
.PP
\fIminconf\fR specifies the minimum number of confirmations that used
outputs should have. Default is 1.
.PP
\fIutxos\fR specifies the utxos to be used to be withdrawn from, as an array
of \(dqtxid:vout\(dq. These must be drawn from the node's available UTXO set.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBtx\fR (hex): the fully signed bitcoin transaction
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBtxid\fR (txid): the transaction id of \fItx\fR
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpsbt\fR (string): the PSBT representing the unsigned transaction
.LP
On failure, an error is reported and the withdrawal transaction is not
created.
.PP
The following error codes may occur:
- -1: Catchall nonspecific error.
- 301: There are not enough funds in the internal wallet (including
fees) to create the transaction.
- 302: The dust limit is not met.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Felix <\fIfixone@gmail.com\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-listfunds(7), lightning-fundchannel(7), lightning-newaddr(7),
lightning-txprepare(7), lightning-feerates(7).
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
\" SHA256STAMP:159498b1d9fc2b66e583ee6a84b2caa2a8e38a2ccf7fd460e838167f68c4c5b9
