.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-OPENCHANNEL_SIGNED" "7" "" "Core Lightning 0.12.1" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-openchannel_signed -- Command to conclude a channel open
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBopenchannel_signed\fR \fIchannel_id\fR \fIsigned_psbt\fR
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fCopenchannel_signed\fR is a low level RPC command which concludes a channel
open with the specified peer. It uses the v2 openchannel protocol, which
allows for interactive transaction construction.
.PP
This command should be called after \fCopenchannel_update\fR returns
\fIcommitments_secured\fR \fCtrue\fR.
.PP
This command will broadcast the finalized funding transaction,
if we receive valid signatures from the peer.
.PP
\fIchannel_id\fR is the id of the channel.
.PP
\fIsigned_psbt\fR is the PSBT returned from \fCopenchannel_update\fR (where
\fIcommitments_secured\fR was true) with partial signatures or finalized
witness stacks included for every input that we contributed to the
PSBT.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel_id\fR (hex): the channel id of the channel (always 64 characters)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBtx\fR (hex): the funding transaction
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBtxid\fR (txid): The txid of the \fBtx\fR
.LP
On error, the returned object will contain \fCcode\fR and \fCmessage\fR properties,
with \fCcode\fR being one of the following:
.IP "\(bu" 2
-32602: If the given parameters are wrong.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
-1: Catchall nonspecific error.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
303: Funding transaction broadcast failed.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
305: Peer is not connected.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
309: PSBT missing required fields.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
311: Unknown channel id.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
312: Channel in an invalid state
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-openchannel_init(7), lightning-openchannel_update(7),
lightning-openchannel_abort(7), lightning-openchannel_bump(7),
lightning-fundchannel_start(7), lightning-fundchannel_complete(7),
lightning-fundchannel(7), lightning-fundpsbt(7),
lightning-utxopsbt(7), lightning-multifundchannel(7)
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
@niftynei <\fIniftynei@gmail.com\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
\" SHA256STAMP:069b8465af7cb9439d0e5439d161be9ff7676a74d84d425b3f9ec84fe720321d
