.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-FUNDERUPDATE" "7" "" "Core Lightning 0.12.1" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-funderupdate -- Command for adjusting node funding v2 channels
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBfunderupdate\fR [\fIpolicy\fR] [\fIpolicy_mod\fR] [\fIleases_only\fR] [\fImin\fItheir\fIfunding_msat\fR] [\fImax\fItheir\fIfunding_msat\fR] [\fIper\fIchannel\fImin_msat\fR] [\fIper\fIchannel\fImax_msat\fR] [\fIreserve\fItank\fImsat\fR] [\fIfuzz_percent\fR] [\fIfund_probability\fR] [\fIlease\fIfee\fIbase_msat\fR] [\fIlease\fIfee\fIbasis\fR] [\fIfunding_weight\fR] [\fIchannel\fIfee\fImax\fIbase\fImsat\fR] [\fIchannel\fIfee\fImax\fIproportional\fIthousandths\fR] [\fIcompact_lease\fR]
.PP
NOTE: Must have --experimental-dual-fund enabled for these settings to take effect.
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
For channel open requests using
.PP
\fIpolicy\fR, \fIpolicy_mod\fR is the policy the funder plugin will use to decide
how much capital to commit to a v2 open channel request. There are three
policy options, detailed below: \fCmatch\fR, \fCavailable\fR, and \fCfixed\fR.
The \fIpolicy_mod\fR is the number or 'modification' to apply to the policy.
Default is (fixed, 0sats).
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCmatch\fR -- Contribute \fIpolicy_mod\fR percent of their requested funds.
Valid \fIpolicy_mod\fR values are 0 to 200. If this is a channel lease
request, we match based on their requested funds. If it is not a
channel lease request (and \fIlease_only\fR is false), then we match
their funding amount. Note: any lease match less than 100 will
likely fail, as clients will not accept a lease less than their request.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCavailable\fR -- Contribute \fIpolicy_mod\fR percent of our available
node wallet funds. Valid \fIpolicy_mod\fR values are 0 to 100.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCfixed\fR -- Contributes a fixed  \fIpolicy_mod\fR sats to v2 channel open requests.
.LP
Note: to maximize channel leases, best policy setting is (match, 100).
.PP
\fIleases_only\fR will only contribute funds to \fCoption_will_fund\fR requests
which pay to lease funds. Defaults to false, will fund any v2 open request
using \fIpolicy\fR even if it's they're not seeking to lease funds. Note that
\fCoption_will_fund\fR commits funds for 4032 blocks (\(ti1mo). Must also set
\fIlease\fIfee\fIbase_msat\fR, \fIlease\fIfee\fIbasis\fR, \fIfunding_weight\fR,
\fIchannel\fIfee\fImax\fIbase\fImsat\fR, and \fIchannel\fIfee\fImax\fIproportional\fIthousandths\fR
to advertise available channel leases.
.PP
\fImin\fItheir\fIfunding_msat\fR is the minimum funding sats that we require in order
to activate our contribution policy to the v2 open.  Defaults to 10k sats.
.PP
\fImax\fItheir\fIfunding_msat\fR is the maximum funding sats that we will consider
to activate our contribution policy to the v2 open. Any channel open above this
will not be funded.  Defaults to no max (\fCUINT_MAX\fR).
.PP
\fIper\fIchannel\fImin_msat\fR is the minimum amount that we will contribute to a
channel open. Defaults to 10k sats.
.PP
\fIper\fIchannel\fImax_msat\fR is the maximum amount that we will contribute to a
channel open. Defaults to no max (\fCUINT_MAX\fR).
.PP
\fIreserve\fItank\fImsat\fR is the amount of sats to leave available in the node wallet.
Defaults to zero sats.
.PP
\fIfuzz_percent\fR is a percentage to fuzz the resulting contribution amount by.
Valid values are 0 to 100. Note that turning this on with (match, 100) policy
will randomly fail \fCoption_will_fund\fR leases, as most clients
expect an exact or greater match of their \fCrequested_funds\fR.
Defaults to 0% (no fuzz).
.PP
\fIfund_probability\fR is the percent of v2 channel open requests to apply our
policy to. Valid values are integers from 0 (fund 0% of all open requests)
to 100 (fund every request). Useful for randomizing opens that receive funds.
Defaults to 100.
.PP
Setting any of the next 5 options will activate channel leases for this node,
and advertise these values via the lightning gossip network. If any one is set,
the other values will be the default.
.PP
\fIlease\fIfee\fIbase_msat\fR is the flat fee for a channel lease. Node will
receive this much extra added to their channel balance, paid by the opening
node. Defaults to 2k sats. Note that the minimum is 1sat.
.PP
\fIlease\fIfee\fIbasis\fR is a basis fee that's calculated as 1/10k of the total
requested funds the peer is asking for. Node will receive the total of
\fIlease\fIfee\fIbasis\fR times requested funds / 10k satoshis added to their channel
balance, paid by the opening node.  Default is 0.65% (65 basis points)
.PP
\fIfunding_weight\fR is used to calculate the fee the peer will compensate your
node for its contributing inputs to the funding transaction. The total fee
is calculated as the \fCopen_channel2\fR.\fCfunding_feerate_perkw\fR times this
\fIfunding_weight\fR divided by 1000. Node will have this funding fee added
to their channel balance, paid by the opening node.  Default is
2 inputs + 1 P2WPKH output.
.PP
\fIchannel\fIfee\fImax\fIbase\fImsat\fR is a commitment to a maximum
\fCchannel_fee_base_msat\fR that your node will charge for routing payments
over this leased channel during the lease duration.  Default is 5k sats.
.PP
\fIchannel\fIfee\fImax\fIproportional\fIthousandths\fR is a commitment to a maximum
\fCchannel_fee_proportional_millionths\fR that your node will charge for
routing payments over this leased channel during the lease duration.
Note that it's denominated in 'thousandths'. A setting of \fC1\fR is equal
to 1k ppm; \fC5\fR is 5k ppm, etc.  Default is 100 (100k ppm).
.PP
\fIcompact_lease\fR is a compact description of the channel lease params. When
opening a channel, passed in to \fCfundchannel\fR to indicate the terms we
expect from the peer.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBsummary\fR (string): Summary of the current funding policy e.g. (match 100)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpolicy\fR (string): Policy funder plugin will use to decide how much captial to commit to a v2 open channel request (one of \(dqmatch\(dq, \(dqavailable\(dq, \(dqfixed\(dq)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpolicy_mod\fR (u32): The \fIpolicy_mod\fR is the number or 'modification' to apply to the policy.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBleases_only\fR (boolean): Only contribute funds to \fCoption_will_fund\fR lease requests.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmin_their_funding_msat\fR (msat): The minimum funding sats that we require from peer to activate our funding policy.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBmax_their_funding_msat\fR (msat): The maximum funding sats that we'll allow from peer to activate our funding policy.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBper_channel_min_msat\fR (msat): The minimum amount that we will fund a channel open with.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBper_channel_max_msat\fR (msat): The maximum amount that we will fund a channel open with.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBreserve_tank_msat\fR (msat): Amount of sats to leave available in the node wallet.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBfuzz_percent\fR (u32): Percentage to fuzz our funding amount by.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBfund_probability\fR (u32): Percent of opens to consider funding. 100 means we'll consider funding every requested open channel request.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlease_fee_base_msat\fR (msat, optional): Flat fee to charge for a channel lease.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBlease_fee_basis\fR (u32, optional): Proportional fee to charge for a channel lease, calculated as 1/10,000th of requested funds.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBfunding_weight\fR (u32, optional): Transaction weight the channel opener will pay us for a leased funding transaction.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel_fee_max_base_msat\fR (msat, optional): Maximum channel\fIfee\fRbase_msat we'll charge for routing funds leased on this channel.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel_fee_max_proportional_thousandths\fR (u32, optional): Maximum channel\fIfee\fRproportional_millitionths we'll charge for routing funds leased on this channel, in thousandths.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcompact_lease\fR (hex, optional): Compact description of the channel lease parameters.
.LP
The following error code may occur:
.IP "\(bu" 2
-32602: If the given parameters are invalid.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
@niftynei <\fIniftynei@gmail.com\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-fundchannel(7), lightning-listfunds(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
\" SHA256STAMP:49e536d568699ea897510e10756a1e7b7ccf97b15c090d67ee7f29baa8f4a3ee
