.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-HSMTOOL" "8" "" "Core Lightning 0.12.1" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-hsmtool -- Tool for working with software HSM secrets of lightningd
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
.EX
lightning-hsmtool method [ARGUMENTS]...
.EE
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBlightning-hsmtool\fR performs various operations on the \fChsm_secret\fR
file used by the software HSM component of \fBlightningd\fR.
.PP
This can be used to encrypt and decrypt the \fChsm_secret\fR file,
as well as derive secrets used in channel commitments.
.SH
METHODS
.LP
\fBencrypt\fR \fIhsm_secret\fR \fIpassword\fR
.PP
Encrypt the \fChsm_secret\fR file so that it can only be decrypted at
\fBlightningd\fR startup.
You must give the option \fB--encrypted-hsm\fR to \fBlightningd\fR.
The password of the \fChsm_secret\fR file will be asked whenever you
start \fBlightningd\fR.
.PP
\fBdecrypt\fR \fIhsm_secret\fR \fIpassword\fR
.PP
Decrypt the \fChsm_secret\fR file that was encrypted with the \fBencrypt\fR
method.
.PP
\fBdumpcommitments\fR \fInode_id\fR \fIchannel_dbid\fR \fIdepth\fR \fIhsm_secret\fR [\fIpassword\fR]
.PP
Show the per-commitment secret and point of up to \fIdepth\fR commitments,
of the specified channel with the specified peer,
identified by the channel database index.
Specify \fIpassword\fR if the \fChsm_secret\fR is encrypted.
.PP
\fBguesstoremote\fR \fIp2wpkh\fR \fInode_id\fR \fImax_channel_dbid\fR \fIhsm_secret\fR [\fIpassword\fR]
.PP
Brute-force the private key to our funds from a remote unilateral close
of a channel, in a case where we have lost all database data except for
our \fChsm_secret\fR.
The peer must be the one to close the channel (and the funds will remain
unrecoverable until the channel is closed).
\fImax_channel_dbid\fR is your own guess on what the \fIchannel_dbid\fR was,
or at least the maximum possible value,
and is usually no greater than the number of channels that the node has
ever had.
Specify \fIpassword\fR if the \fChsm_secret\fR is encrypted.
.PP
\fBgeneratehsm\fR \fIhsm_secret_path\fR
Generates a new hsm_secret using BIP39.
.PP
\fBcheckhsm\fR \fIhsm_secret_path\fR
Checks that hsm_secret matchs a BIP39 pass phrase.
.PP
\fBdumponchaindescriptors\fR \fIhsm_secret\fR [\fIpassword\fR] [\fInetwork\fR]
Dump output descriptors for our onchain wallet.
The descriptors can be used by external services to be able to generate
addresses for our onchain wallet. (for example on \fCbitcoind\fR using the
\fCimportmulti\fR or \fCimportdescriptors\fR RPC calls)
We need the path to the hsm_secret containing the wallet seed, and an optional
(skip using \fC\(dq\(dq\fR) password if it was encrypted.
To generate descriptors using testnet master keys, you may specify \fItestnet\fR as
the last parameter. By default, mainnet-encoded keys are generated.
.SH
BUGS
.LP
You should report bugs on our github issues page, and maybe submit a fix
to gain our eternal gratitude!
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
ZmnSCPxj <\fIZmnSCPxj@protonmail.com\fR> wrote the initial version of
this man page, but many others did the hard work of actually implementing
\fBlightning-hsmtool\fR.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightningd(8), lightningd-config(5)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
.SH
COPYING
.LP
Note: the modules in the ccan/ directory have their own licenses, but
the rest of the code is covered by the BSD-style MIT license.
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
\" SHA256STAMP:08cec893fe7106d33a6f03461c756470091859d3c45551efdc572c361b970151
