.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-BKPR-LISTBALANCES" "7" "" "Core Lightning 0.12.1" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-bkpr-listbalances -- Command for listing current channel + wallet balances
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBbkpr-listbalances\fR
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBbkpr-listbalances\fR RPC command is a list of all current and historical account balances. An account is either the on-chain \fIwallet\fR or a channel balance.
Any funds sent to an \fIexternal\fR account will not be accounted for here.
.PP
Note that any channel that was recorded will be listed. Closed channel balances
will be 0msat.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object containing \fBaccounts\fR is returned.  It is an array of objects, where each object contains:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBaccount\fR (string): The account name. If the account is a channel, the channel_id
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBbalances\fR (array of objects):
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBbalance_msat\fR (msat): Current account balance
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcoin_type\fR (string): coin type, same as HRP for bech32
.RE
.LP
If \fBpeer_id\fR is present:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpeer_id\fR (pubkey): Node id for the peer this account is with
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBwe_opened\fR (boolean): Did we initiate this account open (open the channel)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBaccount_closed\fR (boolean): 
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBaccount_resolved\fR (boolean): Has this channel been closed and all outputs resolved?
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBresolved_at_block\fR (u32, optional): Blockheight account resolved on chain
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
niftynei \fIniftynei@gmail.com\fR is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-bkpr-listincome(7), lightning-listfunds(7),
lightning-bkpr-listaccountevents(7),
lightning-bkpr-channelsapy(7), lightning-listpeers(7).
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
\" SHA256STAMP:5f79ae95f2e096c4158b1f0635b0705c3112374c06f5c4cba72c19feaf5fffff
