.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-SETCHANNELFEE" "7" "" "Core Lightning 0.12.1" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-setchannelfee -- Command for setting specific routing fees on a lightning channel
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
(DEPRECATED) \fBsetchannelfee\fR \fIid\fR [\fIbase\fR] [\fIppm\fR] [\fIenforcedelay\fR]
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBsetchannelfee\fR RPC command sets channel specific routing fees as
defined in BOLT #7. The channel has to be in normal or awaiting state.
This can be checked by \fBlistpeers\fR reporting a \fIstate\fR of
CHANNELD_NORMAL, CHANNELD_AWAITING_LOCKIN or DUALOPEND\fIAWAITING\fRLOCKIN for the channel.
.PP
\fIid\fR is required and should contain a scid (short channel ID), channel
id or peerid (pubkey) of the channel to be modified. If \fIid\fR is set to
\(dqall\(dq, the fees for all channels are updated that are in state
CHANNELD_NORMAL, CHANNELD_AWAITING_LOCKIN or
DUALOPEND\fIAWAITING\fRLOCKIN.  If \fIid\fR is a peerid, all channels with the
peer in those states are changed.
.PP
\fIbase\fR is an optional value in millisatoshi that is added as base fee to
any routed payment. If the parameter is left out, the global config
value fee-base will be used again. It can be a whole number, or a whole
number ending in \fImsat\fR or \fIsat\fR, or a number with three decimal places
ending in \fIsat\fR, or a number with 1 to 11 decimal places ending in
\fIbtc\fR.
.PP
\fIppm\fR is an optional value that is added proportionally per-millionths
to any routed payment volume in satoshi. For example, if ppm is 1,000
and 1,000,000 satoshi is being routed through the channel, an
proportional fee of 1,000 satoshi is added, resulting in a 0.1% fee. If
the parameter is left out, the global config value will be used again.
.PP
\fIenforcedelay\fR is the number of seconds to delay before enforcing the
new fees (default 600, which is ten minutes).  This gives the network
a chance to catch up with the new rates and avoids rejecting HTLCs
before they do.  This only has an effect if rates are increased (we
always allow users to overpay fees), only applies to a single rate
increase per channel (we don't remember an arbitrary number of prior
feerates) and if the node is restarted the updated fees are enforced
immediately.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBbase\fR (u32): The fee\fIbase\fRmsat value
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBppm\fR (u32): The fee\fIproportional\fRmillionths value
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannels\fR (array of objects): channel(s) whose rate is now set:
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpeer_id\fR (pubkey): The node_id of the peer
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel_id\fR (hex): The channel_id of the channel (always 64 characters)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBshort_channel_id\fR (short\fIchannel\fRid, optional): the short\fIchannel\fRid (if locked in)
.RE
.SH
ERRORS
.LP
The following error codes may occur:
- -1: Channel is in incorrect state, i.e. Catchall nonspecific error.
- -32602: JSONRPC2_INVALID_PARAMS, i.e. Given id is not a channel ID
or short channel ID.
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
Michael Schmoock <\fImichael@schmoock.net\fR> is the author of this
feature. Rusty Russell <\fIrusty@rustcorp.com.au\fR> is mainly
responsible for the Core Lightning project.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightningd-setchannel(7)
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
\" SHA256STAMP:cf1dcc0910a91ae39e23c98b38e4e51b73d95d5b6f135e360eabf944dfd46393
