.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-OPENCHANNEL_ABORT" "7" "" "Core Lightning 0.12.1" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-openchannel_abort -- Command to abort a channel to a peer
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBopenchannel_abort\fR \fIchannel_id\fR
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fCopenchannel_init\fR is a low level RPC command which initiates a channel
open with a specified peer. It uses the openchannel protocol
which allows for interactive transaction construction.
.PP
\fIchannel_id\fR is id of this channel.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object is returned, containing:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel_id\fR (hex): the channel id of the aborted channel (always 64 characters)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBchannel_canceled\fR (boolean): whether this is completely canceled (there may be remaining in-flight transactions)
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBreason\fR (string): usually \(dqAbort requested\(dq, but if it happened to fail at the same time it could be different
.LP
On error the returned object will contain \fCcode\fR and \fCmessage\fR properties,
with \fCcode\fR being one of the following:
.IP "\(bu" 2
-32602: If the given parameters are wrong.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
-1: Catchall nonspecific error.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
305: Peer is not connected.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
311: Unknown channel id.
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
312: Channel in an invalid state
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-openchannel_init(7), lightning-openchannel_update(7),
lightning-openchannel_signed(7), lightning-openchannel_bump(7),
lightning-fundchannel_start(7), lightning-fundchannel_complete(7),
lightning-fundchannel(7), lightning-fundpsbt(7), lightning-utxopsbt(7),
lightning-multifundchannel(7)
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
@niftynei <\fIniftynei@gmail.com\fR> is mainly responsible.
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
\" SHA256STAMP:75c8d58ae53e2b747ee2b53e8af2d4ffdde91963a4f182041f54626b6133c121
