.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.TH "LIGHTNING-BKPR-INSPECT" "7" "" "Core Lightning 0.12.1" ""
.SH
NAME
.LP
lightning-bkpr-inspect -- Command to show onchain footprint of a channel
.SH
SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBbkpr-inspect\fR \fIaccount\fR
.SH
DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBbkpr-inspect\fR RPC command lists all known on-chain transactions and
associated events for the provided account. Useful for inspecting unilateral
closes for a given channel account. Only valid for channel accounts.
.SH
RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success, an object containing \fBtxs\fR is returned.  It is an array of objects, where each object contains:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBtxid\fR (txid): transaction id
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBfees_paid_msat\fR (msat): Amount paid in sats for this tx
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBoutputs\fR (array of objects):
.RS
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBaccount\fR (string): Account this output affected
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBoutnum\fR (u32): Index of output
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBoutput_value_msat\fR (msat): Value of the output
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcurrency\fR (string): human-readable bech32 part for this coin type
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBcredit_msat\fR (msat, optional): Amount credited to account
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBdebit_msat\fR (msat, optional): Amount debited from account
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBoriginating_account\fR (string, optional): Account this output originated from
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBoutput_tag\fR (string, optional): Description of output creation event
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBspend_tag\fR (string, optional): Description of output spend event
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBspending_txid\fR (txid, optional): Transaction this output was spent in
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBpayment_id\fR (hex, optional): lightning payment identifier. For an htlc, this will be the preimage.
.RE
.if n \
.sp -1
.if t \
.sp -0.25v
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBblockheight\fR (u32, optional): Blockheight of transaction
.SH
AUTHOR
.LP
niftynei \fIniftynei@gmail.com\fR is mainly responsible.
.SH
SEE ALSO
.LP
lightning-listbalances(7), lightning-listfunds(7), lightning-listpeers(7).
.SH
RESOURCES
.LP
Main web site: \fIhttps://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning\fR
\" SHA256STAMP:e7cfcfed93eef02fb1cb5fbdf303d2fbe8083ed1acc83097636c4e44f6d277ec
